
COMMANDS TO EXECUTE:

$ make

To run RR/DEFAULT:
$ make qemu

To run FCFS,PRIORITY,MLFQ
$ make clean
$ make qemu SCHEDULER=FCFS              (OR)
$ make qemu SCHEDULER=PBS               (OR)
$ make qemu SCHEDULER=MLFQ

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THe new system calls which are added to xv6 basic code.

1)int waitx(int* wtime, int* rtime) :

    The two arguments are pointers to integers to which waitx will assign the total
    number of clock ticks during which process was waiting and total number of clock
    ticks when the process was running.

    Here waiting time & running time of a process are calculated.

2)int set_priority(int pid,int priority):

    The PRIORITY of the process of given pid is updated with the new priority which is passed as ARGUMENT

3)int getpinfo(struct proc_stat*,int pid):

    Here the information of process of given pid are stored in proc_stat* argument
    ​

The new commands added to xv6 basic code.

1)time :

    "time" command ,which uses waitx and prints the runtime and waittime of command passed as argument

2)ps :
    
    "ps" command to print some information processes which are in "SLEEPING","RUNNABLE" and "RUNNING" states which uses cps system call

3)set_pr :

    "set_pr" command which uses set_priority system call , the arguments passed are pid and new priority.

4)pr_create :

    "pr_create" command is to create a process and runs for a long time doing some random calculation,this is created to check the scheduling policies.

5)getpinfo :        
    
    "getpinfo" commmand is used to print the process info of the pid which is passed as argument.

6)new :
    
    "new" command is also a tester command


The new scheduling process added in this xv6 basic code.

1)First come first served (FCFS): 

    The simplest scheduling algorithm. FCFS simply queues processes in the order that they arrive in the ready queue.
    The scheduling overhead due to using this policy is minimal since context switches only occur upon process termination,
    and no reorganization of the process queue is required.

2)The priority scheduling algorithm (PRIORITY):

    It  represents a preemptive policy that executes processes based on their priority. 
    The scheduling policy first select the runnable process with the lowest value of priority and executes it, 
    after that it finds the one with the seconds lowest value of priority and excutes it and so on, until we have 
    finished all the processes. 

3) multi-level feedback queue (MLFQ) :

    -Five priority levels, numbered from 0 (highest) down to 4 (lowest).
    -The highest priority ready process is scheduled to run whenever the previously running process exits, sleeps, 
        or otherwise yields the CPU.
    -When a new process arrives, it should start at priority 0.